integration/tests/purge/README.md, before:

# Purge integration test

This app customizes the `RemoteIp.Debug` log level, just like the [level](../level) integration test. However, it also adjusts the `Logger` configuration to make sure that the [`:compile_time_purge_matching` option](https://hexdocs.pm/logger/1.11.3/Logger.html#module-application-configuration) still works when remote\_ip gets recompiled.

Specifically, we follow these steps:

1. Configure remote\_ip to log at the `:info` level.
2. Configure logger to purge all messages below the `:error` level at compile-time.
3. Compile remote\_ip.
4. When the tests are running, set the log level to `:info`.
5. Capture logs from `RemoteIp.call/2` & `RemoteIp.from/2`.

If the remote\_ip log messages were purged in step 3, then step 4 should have no effect and step 5 should generate no logs. However, if this purging failed, then logs _will_ be generated in step 5. This could happen if remote\_ip didn't pass literal atoms (like `:info`) into `Logger.log/3`: since the macro can't (or shouldn't) evaluate a non-literal expression at compile time, it'll expand into a run-time level check!

This is an important regression to test because older versions of remote\_ip instructed people to disable debug logs using `:compile_time_purge_matching` (cf. [`4512fe5`](https://github.com/ajvondrak/remote_ip/commit/4512fe53cd2b9c2e03924b12961e48a1ff5b0299)), so we should make an effort to ensure their configurations keep working. Of course, it's still possible they used a `:module`/`:function` matcher that is no longer relevant due to the changing internals of the remote\_ip code. But that's on them for matching against private implementation details. 🙃

Commit message:

Remove debugger's :level configuration
At most, this configuration isn't general enough. We can customize which
debug events get fired, but we can't customize their *individual* log
levels. So the :level option is less "you can configure anything!" and
more "nuclear option".

But to be honest, even adding a per-event level configuration is not
appealing. It smells a lot like over-engineering (and that's coming from
me, of all people). If I can't see the utility in per-event log levels,
it's not hard to kill this darling.

Plus, using the debug level is consistent with the name
RemoteIp.Debugger, and removing the level logic simplifies the code
significantly.

integration/tests/purge/README.md, after:

# Purge integration test

This app enables remote\_ip debugging, just like the [debug](../debug) integration test. However, it also adjusts the `Logger` configuration to make sure that the [`:compile_time_purge_matching` option](https://hexdocs.pm/logger/1.11.3/Logger.html#module-application-configuration) still works when remote\_ip gets recompiled.

Specifically, we purge messages with a level lower than `:info`, which includes the `:debug` messages that `RemoteIp.Debugger` generates. This means that when we compile remote\_ip, none of the debug statements should survive. Even when we set the log level to `:debug` at runtime in the tests, the logs should have been purged at compile-time.

This is an important regression to test because older versions of remote\_ip instructed people to disable debug logs using `:compile_time_purge_matching` (cf. [`4512fe5`](https://github.com/ajvondrak/remote_ip/commit/4512fe53cd2b9c2e03924b12961e48a1ff5b0299)), so we should make an effort to ensure their configurations keep working. Of course, it's still possible they used a `:module`/`:function` matcher that is no longer relevant due to the changing internals of the remote\_ip code. But that's on them for matching against private implementation details. 🙃
